On-Demand Instances – Pay, by the second, for the instances that you launch.You pay only for the seconds that your On-Demand Instances are in the running state, with a 60-second minimum. The price per second for a running On-Demand Instance is fixed.
On-Demand Instances for applications with short-term, irregular workloads that cannot be interrupted.

Savings Plans – Reduce your Amazon EC2 costs by making a commitment to a consistent amount of usage, in USD per hour, for a term of 1 or 3 years.
Usage beyond ec2 savings plans i billed at on-demand price
Locket toa specific instance family & aws region.Flexible acroos:
1) instance size
2) os
3) tenancy 

Reserved Instances – Reduce your Amazon EC2 costs by making a commitment to a consistent instance configuration, including instance type and Region, for a term of 1 or 3 years. 
They are discpunted based on reservation period(1 or 3 years) , payment options (no upfront , partial upront , all upfront) , reserved instance scope( regional or zone) , recommneded for steady state usage applicartions(think databse) .
You can buy and sell in reserved instance marketplace.

Convertible reservd instance 
 - can change the ec2 instance type , instance family , os , scope and tenancy 

Spot Instances – Request unused EC2 instances, which can reduce your Amazon EC2 costs significantly about 90% discount.The most cost-efficient instances in aws. Not suitable for critical jobs.You set max spot price /high value till what ytou can spend per hr , if rate goes higher you loose the instance within 2 minutes that is your grace period.

Terminate spot instances
You can only cancel spot instance requests that are open, active or disabled. Cancelling a spot request does not terminate instnaces . You must first cancel a spot request , and then terminate the associated spot instances.

Spot fleets =set of set instances + on demand instances . 
STragries to spot instances :
-lowestprice - from the pool with lowest price
-diversiifes-distribted acroos all pools
capacityoptimized-pool with optimal capacity for the number of instances
Spot fleets allow us to automatically request spot instances with lowest  price'

Dedicated Hosts – Pay for a physical host that is fully dedicated to running your instances, and bring your existing per-socket, per-core, or per-VM software licenses to reduce costs.Most expensive options . 

Dedicated Instances – Pay, by the hour, for instances that run on single-tenant hardware.

Capacity Reservations – Reserve capacity for your EC2 instances in a specific Availability Zone for any duration.You charget at on-demand rate whether you run or not. Suitable for work load small if for particular AZ
